The Invaders, who humans call the Vespers and the Vores, come from a parallel dimension to ours.  They have a long and involved history, and actually come from the same root species.

Those who would become the Invaders were originally called the Wehlor.  The Wehlor were a race extremely similar to humanity.  However, their evolution took a decidedly different turn.

Their evolution changed when the nations of the Wehlor became superstates on their world.  Their planet compromised of a few vast bureaucratic governments that evolved into totalitarian regimes that were constantly at war with one another.  The two major social classes that developed in each superstate were the Archons and the Serfs.  The Archons ruled with iron fists, controlling all of the resources of their territory, while the Serfs had extremely few rights or liberties.

The wars between the superstates were so constant that the Wehlor created air raid sirens, which sounded as if great drums were being beaten in a certain pattern.  The sounds of these drums were played constantly for the Serfs and eventually became ingrained in them as a form of mind control.  The drums would be played by the Archons and the Serfs would instinctively seek shelter.  This lasted for several thousand years.

Eventually, the two classes fully evolved into separate races.  The Archons become the Wehlox, physically brutal creatures who man the ancient underground machinery of the ruins.  This machinery provides veritable paradises to the Wehloi, the evolution of the Serfs, who became cattle for the Wehlox to feed on.

Whenever the Wehlox wanted to feed, they would activate the sounds of the drum-sirens.  The sounds would mesmerize the Wehloi into pens for the slaughter.  This symbiotic relationship last for another several thousand years.

However, just as evolution mutated the Wehlox into physical brutes, the natural selection of the Wehloi caused those who could resist the drum-sirens to breed more than those who would go to it sooner.  This meant that, over time, the Wehloi developed an immunity to this mental conditioning.  Those more mentally resilient were able to develop psionic powers.

These psionic Wehloi escaped the confines of the Wehlox and bred, passing on their abilities.  They also freed those who remained imprisoned, using them as breeding stock and increasing their numbers.

The Wehlox, on the other hand, was losing their livestock and so were dwindling.  They needed to adapt or else die off.  So adapt they did.  They became predators, hunting down the freed Wehloi as prey.  The reason why they continued to prey on the Wehloi was because their new psionic powers changed their body chemistry, and so changed the body chemistry of the Wehlox who devoured them.  Wehlox who ate psionic Wehloi found their already considerable physical form enhanced many times over and mutated to develop natural weapons, armor, and special senses.

And so just as the Wehloi evolved psionic powers to escape the Wehlox, so too did the Wehlox evolve mutations to hunt them down again, a continuous cycle that spurred both sides to greater and greater degrees of power and ability.

Eventually, the power of the Wehloi expanded so much that their elders developed the abilities to project their senses on other planets and event teleport some of their number to those that were deemed habitable.  They ran to the stars and thought they had left their hunters behind forever.

They were wrong.  The Wehlox could not survive without the Wehloi to feed on.  As the Wehloi committed their mass exodus from their home planet, a few of the powerful elders who could teleport went back to save more of their numbers.  Of these few, a number were successfully hunted down by elder Wehlox.  From the powerful elder minds they feasted on, the Wehlox developed the ability to travel through the cold distances of space.

So the Wehloi remained prey and the Wehlox remained their predators.  The Wehloi lived on their planets in peace and were startled to suddenly find the spaceborne Wehlox fall through the atmosphere like so many locusts.  The Wehlox would devourer the planet of all Wehloi out of hunger and all other life out of amusement.  And after the frenzy, they would launch themselves back into the void and sleep the numerous millennia it took to reach from one planet to another.

The generations passed and the greatest elders of the Wehloi realized that they would never be beyond the hunts of the Wehlox no matter where they traveled to.  So they dared a dangerous plan.  To use their psionic powers to rip a hole in the dimensional fabric and find a new universe to dwell.  It was a fatal plan, as the elders would require vast amounts of psionic energy to do this act, and so would have to draw it from other Wehloi who would burn out and die.  Also, there would have to be Wehloi as defenders against any Wehlox who would disrupt the ritual.

Naturally, the Wehlox attempted to do so.  They sought to feast on the Wehloi.  But the Wehlox were determined to deny them.  The blood of both races during the slaughter was enough to comprise a large moon.

The Wehloi were able to rip the dimensional fabric and travel to our universe.  In order to travel, the Four, as the elders who performed the ritual were known since they were the Four most powerful of the Wehloi, fragmented their essences to better inter-dimensional travel.  This allowed their essences to survive with the strength of the group at the cost of their individual psyches.  They would reconstitute first as a group energy aura, then as a single collective of energy, then individual forms of psionic energy.  Once at that stage, they can use their psionic energy to constitute physical forms.

But the Pentatrix, the five most powerful of the Wehlox, traveled through the dimensional rift along with the Four.  Their bodies were ripped apart in the inter-dimensional travel, but individual pieces were protected by the Four’s psionic energy acting as a shield and keeping them intact.  When the pieces of the Pentatrix crossed over, they were inert body parts.  However, they contain the genetic memory of the individuals they grew from.

So when a scientific survey ship found their remains, the body parts unleashed spores which mutated the humans and infected them with a genetic instinctual memory they may not understand.  It also caused the Invaded humans to evolve into the Scourge, the human analogue to the Wehlox, who the humans call the Vores.

Likewise, not everything went as planned for the Four, called the Vespers by the humans who discover them.  They remained an aura of psionic energy but had difficulty coalescing.  Their energies roamed through the void until it was attracted to human minds on the station.  Their brains attracted the energies like magnets and flooded individuals with psionic power, leading them to develop psionic abilities over time.  These people evolved into the Psions.

The powers of the Psions and the Scourge developed based on how their evolution as prey and predator developed.

Psions by their nature are prey creatures, and therefore find more safety in a herd mentality.  For example, their low-level telepathic abilities allow them to operate better as a team than alone.  Because Psions are able to coordinate together telepathically, they are stronger in groups.  They are able to look through the eyes of others and know when and how to strike or dodge.  They are therefore stronger in numbers than when alone.

Scourges are predator creatures and have innate weaponry and armor.  They can and do operate in packs, but can survive alone if need be - they are not forced into social groups.  They are also premiere stalkers, hunting down Psions left alone or weak since they are easier prey.
