update locationdescriptions set description='The walls of this room are a pristine white that seems to glow from the illuminators imbedded in the ceiling, walls, and floors.  The brightness of the room stands as a sharp contrast to the crimson black blood that stains the gurneys, sensors and equipment.  The patterns of gore over the illuminators make strange patterns above, below, and all around you.  Those who stare at them for long enough start consider that it might actually be a message from someone.  Or something.' where id=  1;
update locationdescriptions set description='The walls of this room are a pristine white that seems to glow from the illuminators imbedded in the ceiling, walls, and floors.  In the middle is a wheelchair that has tumbled on its side.  The left wheel creaks as it spins.  It doesn''t look like it''ll stop any time soon.' where id=  3;
update locationdescriptions set description='These living quarters are rather spartan.  The bed is made with military precision.  The clothes are arranged neatly in the closet.  The towels are place primly on the rack in the bathroom.  The order and neatness of these quarters are quite commendable.  Except for the faucet that just won''t stop dripping.' where id=  4;
update locationdescriptions set description='These living quarters are totally empty of any furnishings.  The only thing within these quarters are strange symbols and hieroglyphs.  They cover the ceiling, walls, and floors.  They were written by the former occupant.  The station''s doctors would ask him why he drew them, but he bled to death before they could.  He ran out of ink.' where id=  6;
update locationdescriptions set description='These living quarters look just like yours.  Upon entering, though, you find a family sitting down to dinner.  Embarrassed, you excuse yourself.  Then you remember that no families were allowed on the station.  You go back inside.  The family can''t be found.  These still aren''t your living quarters.' where id=  9;
update locationdescriptions set description='You are in a corridor.  The walls are a sparse white with colored lines forming trails to certain destinations.  There was a hole here.  Its gone now.' where id= 17;
update locationdescriptions set description='This bar is empty except for the broken remnants of a stool.  Somebody didn''t have a nice day.' where id= 27;
update locationdescriptions set description='You are inside the arena.  There is a stage in the center and it is surrounded on all sides by rows and rows of seats high against the walls.  From above you notice a couple dancing on the stage below.  You run down towards them but by the time you get to the stage nobody''s there.' where id= 30;
update locationdescriptions set description='You are inside the arena.  There is a stage in the center and it is surrounded on all sides by rows and rows of seats high against the walls.  You stand in the center stage.  Even though the seats are empty, you can''t help but feel somebody up there watching you.  And waiting.' where id= 31;
update locationdescriptions set description='You are inside the arena.  There is a stage in the center and it is surrounded on all sides by rows and rows of seats high against the walls.  You hear a faint noise that lasts only while youre inside.  You realize it is the sound of drums.' where id= 32;
update locationdescriptions set description='This is a biology lab.  Scientists use this area to chart, study, and analyze biological activity in plants and animals being experimented on.  There are cages full of mice.  The sounds of scurrying can be heard all about inside them.  How it''s made when all the mice in the cages are dead, though, is a scientific unknown.' where id= 37;
update locationdescriptions set description='This is a psionics lab.  It has strange implements made up of shining metals with opaque crystals embedded.  Scientists on the station use this lab to study the strange psionics powers that the crew has developed.  This is the only room where the voices can''t be heard.' where id= 42;
update locationdescriptions set description='This is a psionics lab.  It has strange implements made up of shining metals with opaque crystals embedded.  Scientists on the station use this lab to study the strange psionics powers that the crew has developed.  This is the only room where the voices can''t be heard.  That scares you for some reason.' where id= 43;
update locationdescriptions set description='You''re standing in an observation deck.  One wall of the room is nothing but crysteel.  On the other side you see the expanse of space before you.' where id= 44;
update locationdescriptions set description='You''re standing in an observation deck.  One wall of the room is nothing but crysteel.  On the other side you see the expanse of space before you.  All that separates you from the cold harsh unfeeling void is 1 inch of transparent metal.' where id= 45;
update locationdescriptions set description='You''re standing in an observation deck.  One wall of the room is nothing but crysteel.  On the other side you see the expanse of space before you.  All that separates you from the cold harsh unfeeling void is 1 inch of transparent metal.  Please don''t touch.' where id= 46;
update locationdescriptions set description='You''re standing in an observation deck.  One wall of the room is nothing but crysteel.  On the other side you see the expanse of space before you.  All that separates you from the cold harsh unfeeling void is 1 inch of transparent metal.  Don''t be around when it breaks.' where id= 47;

